.. Copyright 2020 University of Maryland and other CallFlow Project Developers.
   See the top-level LICENSE file for details.

   SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT

***************
Getting Started
***************

Prerequisites
=============

The callflow (python package) requires python (>= 3.6) and pip (>= 20.1.1). Other dependencies are checked/installed during the installation of callflow using pip.

Other dependencies are:

#. hatchet
#. pandas
#. networkx (2.2)
#. numpy
#. flask
#. statsmodels, and
#. sklearn

CallFlow is available on  `GitHub <https://github.com/LLNL/CallFlow>`_

The callflow app (visualization component) requires node.js (>= 13.7.0) and npm (>= 6.13.7). If there is an older version of node installed, install nvm and use the following command to change version. 

.. code-block:: console

   $ nvm use 13.7.0.

Installation
============

You can get CallFlow from its `GitHub <https://github.com/LLNL/CallFlow>`_ using this command:

.. code-block:: console

   $ git clone https://github.com/LLNL/CallFlow.git

Install callflow python package
-------------------------------
To install callflow python package, run the following command using `setup.py`. 

.. code-block:: console

   $ python3 setup.py install

To install in the dev mode,

.. code-block:: console

   $ pip install -e . --prefix=/path/to/install

Check Installation of callflow python package
---------------------------------------------
After installing callflow, make sure you update your PYTHONPATH environment variable to point to directory where callflow was installed. 

.. code-block:: console

   $ python
   Python 3.7.7 (default, Jul 11 2019, 01:08:00)
   [Clang 11.0.0 (clang-1100.0.33.17)]] on darwin
   Type "help", "copyright", "credits" or "license" for more information.
   >>>

Typing ``import callflow`` at the prompt should succeed without any error messages:

.. code-block:: console

  >>> import callflow
  >>>

Install the Visualization client
--------------------------------

.. code-block:: console

   $ cd app 
   $ npm install

Supported data formats
======================

Currently, hatchet supports the following data formats as input:

* `HPCToolkit <http://hpctoolkit.org/index.html>`_ database: This is generated
  by using ``hpcprof-mpi`` to post-process the raw measurements directory
  output by HPCToolkit.
* Caliper `Cali <http://llnl.github.io/Caliper/OutputFormats.html#cali>`_ file:
  This is the format in which caliper outputs raw performance data by default.
* Caliper `Json-split
  <http://llnl.github.io/Caliper/OutputFormats.html#json-split>`_ file: This is
  generated by either running cali-query on the raw caliper data or by enabling
  the mpireport service when using caliper.

For more details on the different input file formats, refer to the
:doc:`User Guide <user_guide>`.

